OOP Memory

tuple:  A tuple is another type of data in Python that's a collection of values--
x, y or x, y, z.
It's similar in spirit to a list, in that sense, but it's immutable.
It's not mutable.
Now, what does that mean?
A list, as we've seen it before, is a data structure in Python
that you can change the values of.
You can go into bracket 0 for the first location and change the value there.
You can go to bracket 1, bracket 2, bracket 3 and actually change
the values in lists.
But if you have no intention of changing the values of variables
and you want to return, effectively, multiple values,
you don't have to even return it as a list.
You can return it as a tuple instead, just by using a comma.


_


But what a tuple is-- it's very similar in spirit to a list,
but it is indeed just immutable.
And what I mean by that is I can still index into it
numerically by saying student [0] for the item
in the first location in that tuple.
And then over here, instead of house, I can say student [1].
student [1] is going to give me the second location in that tuple.


_


 I guess, what's an actual use case where
you would use a tuple versus a list or something else that's similar?
DAVID J. MALAN: It's a really good question.
When would you use a tuple versus a list?
When you want to program defensively, or, in general,
when you know that the values in this variable shouldn't change,
so why would you use a data type that allows them to be changed?
It just invites mistakes, bugs down the line, either
by you or colleagues who are interacting with your code.
So tuple is just another way where you can increase
the probability of correctness by just not letting anyone, yourself included,
change the contents therein.

_


classes:  A class is like a blueprint for pieces of data objects.
A class is a mold that you can define and give a name.
And when you use that mold or you use that blueprint,
you get types of data that are designed exactly as you want.
So in short, classes allow you to invent your own data types in Python
and give them a name.
And this is a primary feature of object oriented programming,
to be able to create your own objects in this way
and, in the case of Python in classes, even give them some custom names.

docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html

keyword: class

_


attributes: instance variables
- calling those same attributes, more technically, instance variables.
"Name" and "House," as I presented them here in VS Code
are really just variables called "name" and called "house" inside
of an object whose type is student.

V.1.1
_ And now we're setting the stage for the more powerful features of classes
and object-oriented programming more generally.
Notice that I'm deliberately passing to this capital S Student
function, name, house--
I'm passing in arguments to the function.
Now, the student class is not going to know what to do with those yet,
but now I'm standardizing how I'm passing data into this student class.
And ultimately, it's going to give me an opportunity to error
check those inputs, to make sure that the name is valid, that it has a value
and it's not just the user hitting Enter.
It's going to allow me to ensure that it's a valid house

ðŸ‘¹ðŸ‘ºâ˜ ï¸ðŸ’€
methods: And a method is just a function inside of a class.
So let's now go up to the student class, which, up until now,
I left as just dot, dot, dot.
It turns out that, in the context of classes,
there are a number of not just attributes or instance
variables that you can put inside, but also methods.
Classes come with certain methods, or functions inside of them,
that you can define, and they just behave in a special way,
by nature of how Python works.
These functions allow you to determine behavior in a standard way.
They are special methods in that sense.
Now, what do I mean by this.
Well, let me go back to VS Code here.
And let me propose that I start to define a standard function
called underscore underscore, or Dunder, as it's
abbreviated, init, underscore underscore,
and then I'm going to go ahead and do open parentheses,
and then I'm going to put in here, literally, the word self.
More on that in just a moment.
But now, inside of this function, I'm going to have an opportunity
to customize this class's objects.


@property:  namely properties.
So a property is really just an attribute
that has even more defense mechanisms put into place,
a little more functionality implemented by you to prevent programmers, like me
and you, from messing things up like these attributes.
So again, a property is going to be an attribute that you and I just
have more control over.

decorators:  which are functions that modify the behavior of other functions,



V.1.6
***   _ variable starts with an underscore, please don't touch it.
Just don't.
That's on you if you touch that variable and break things.
The underscore is meant to signify a convention
that this is meant to be "private," but it really just
means, please don't touch this.
Sometimes, if there's two underscores, which you can use,
too, that's an even greater effort by programmers to say,
really don't touch this.  _ ***

int => is a class that is class int(x, base=10)

str => is a class that is clas str(object=' ')

str.lower() => the lower is a method

str.strip([chars]) => the strip is a method

list => is a class that is clas list([iterable])

list.append(x) => is a class

dict => is a class

@classmethod:  t turns out that sometimes it's not really necessary or sensible
to associate a function with objects of a class,
but rather with the class itself.
An instance, or an object of a class, is a very specific incarnation thereof.
Again, on that neighborhood that has a lot of identical looking buildings,
but they're all a little bit different because of different paint and such,
sometimes you might have functionality related
to each of those houses that isn't distinct or unique for any
of the houses.
It's functionality that's going to be exactly the same no
matter the house in question.
Same in the world of object-oriented programming.
Sometimes you want some functionality, some action
to be associated with the class itself, no matter what the specific object's
own values or instance variables are.
And for that, we have a keyword called @classmethod.


@staticmethod:
inheritance -> It turns out, via object-oriented programming,
there's actually an opportunity to design your classes
in a hierarchical fashion, whereby you can have one class inherit from
or borrow attributes-- that is, methods or variables from another class
if they all have those in common.

operator overloating: docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html#special-method-names
object.__add__(self, other)


https://cs50.harvard.edu/python/2022/notes/8/
